user and permissions:
/etc/passwd - store user account details.
● /etc/shadow - store encrypted user passwords.
● /etc/group - stores group information.
● /etc/gshadow - stores secure group details.
CREATING A USER
● useradd username - this creates a user without home directory
● useradd -m username - this creates a user with home directory
● useradd -s /bin/bash username - this specifies the bash shell otherwise linux
will give you a dumber shell like sh or zsh.
Use these ones when you aren’t on debian system or need manual control
● adduser username - use this one, the best. It is interactive and automatically
creates home directories and shell and also prompts you for password.
MANAGING USER PASSWORD
● To set or change a password name: passwd username.
● You can also enforce policies on passwords:
○ Expiration - chnge -M 90 username, now password will expire after 90
days.
○ Lock user account - passwd -l username
○ Unlock user account - passwd -u username
DELETING USERS
● userdel username - deletes the user but keeps their home directory.
● userdel -r username - deletes the user and also its home directory.
WORKING WITH GROUPS
● groupadd groupname - creating groups.
● usermod -aG groupname username - adding users to groups.
● groups username - viewing group memberships.
● usermod -g new_primaryGroup_username - changing primary group.

Changing ownership with chown
Owner is usually the user but we can change ownership:
● chown newuser filename gives the ownership of the file to the mentioned user.
● chown newuser:newgroup filename changes both owner and group.
● chown :newgroup filename changes group only.
Changing group ownership with chgrp
● chgrp newgroup filename changes group.
● chgrp -R newgroup filename changes group recursively.

PROCESS MANAGEMENT
How processes are monitored, prioritized and terminated.
For Monitoring
● Ps - it only shows processes running in your current terminal.
● Ps aux - standard snapshot of every process on the system.
● Top - A real-time dynamic view of the system which updates every few seconds
and sorts processes by CPU usage.
● Htop - interactive colorful version of top. It also allows you to kill and scroll with
mouse and keys.
For Terminating
● Kill PID - sends a terminating signal to process ID to close peacefully

ARCHIVING AND COMPRESSION
● tar -cvf archive.tar file1.txt file2.txt – tar is a common tool for
bundling multiple files. Here c means create, v means verbose (show progress)
and f means filename. It creates a new archive.
● tar -xvf archive.tar – It extracts files from an archive.
● tar -tvf archive.tar – list files inside the archive.
● gzip file.txt – compresses file and renames to file.txt.gz
● gunzip file.txt.gz – decompresses back to original state.
● zip -r myfiles.zip folder/ – creates a zip file of folders. Recursive flag is
mandatory.
● unzip myfiles.zp - extract the contents
